welcome everyone to this week's
ipld sync meeting it's
december the 7th 2020
and as every week we go over the stuff
that we've worked
on on the past week and
the talk about the stuff we work on next
and then discuss any ancient items we
might have um
i start with myself it's i don't have
that much of an update
i can also still work on my blog
storage kind of thing for content
address data
and currently mostly ficoine and it's so
the exciting news is that it now
actually works so if you go to the
repository you can
try it out and play with it because i've
now verified it with
uh so it was a dump of so a car file
from
frye coin with around 750 gigabytes
um and i was able to recreate the file
based on my index um
and also like i have a tooling that kind
of prints out what's in there and it's
like sounds looks now
it sounds correct because like first it
was too good to be true and it actually
was too good to be true
but now it looks sensible so um yeah
so check out the source code and um
currently the work goes into
a ffi that i've done in now like
um friday we work on doing a go binding
so we can try it
with the benchmarking suite for lotus to
see
um how fast it is compared to other
stores so i'm excited to
see the results there um
yeah but um so if anyone's watching this
one and it's not into
filecoin it is really about like storing
content-based data so it could also be
used for
ipld or even ipfs so that's certainly
also something i will look into if we
can yeah
how good it will fit those use cases
um that's all i have next on my list is
danielle
cool um so something we started with
last week was the big refactors in ipld
prime as in the
backwards and compatible changes the
first one was removing the error returns
from
the as boolean as string and so on
methods
um i actually got pretty far in that
because we wanted to automate the
changes downstream from all the live
to all the libraries that use ipl d
prime but after talking to eric
for a while we realized that we actually
do want to
still keep the error returns around and
i don't know if you want to talk about
that later but
i'm not going to get into the details
right now but the gist of it is
adls adls do want to use the errors and
removing the errors
from the adl is a bad idea so now on to
the second
0.7 breaking change which is to use n64
for sizes uh because in a bunch of
places right now they're just integers
which is going to be bad and
on 32-bit um i also worked with martin
quite a bit on ci because
he's sort of leading an effort to um
make our use of github actions a little
bit more consistent
and that sort of goes in line with what
i was thinking of um
defining what the best practices for ci
for go are
so i'm helping him review and test that
stuff and we're using the ipld work as a
sort of guinea pig
for this stuff
i also helped him review a bunch of pr's
for a quick go which is not really my
area but i happen to notice that he's
got a bunch of pr's that have been stuck
for weeks
just because the original author of
quick go is really busy at the moment
and many of the changes were pretty
simple go stuff so i was still able to
review them
so i might continue to do that with the
more complex ones if he needs that
it doesn't take a lot of my time and
there was also a proposal
a sort of draft go proposal that i
started two weeks ago
um stemming from something that i think
it was an ipfs developer brought up on
slack about
a common bug that they have with um
type assertions and on map of map
indexes
so that's the link on hackmd if anyone
wants to look at that and i still think
it's a sort of thorny edge case of go
that makes
code confusing i'm less com i'm less
convinced right now that it should be a
change in the go language
uh so i think maybe i should propose it
as a some sort of static analysis
um check either in vet or in something
like static check
but i feel like both of them would tell
me no um
so i'm kind of i'm not sure what i'm
gonna do anyway
and the last thing is that um i happened
to
i happened upon how go ipfs use channels
for iterators
and i'm really not happy about it so i
left them a nice comment explaining
how i think they could do it better
because channels and go
exposing them in apis is possible but
it's very thorny and i think it should
be avoided
um and the way they're doing it is just
to avoid writing some boilerplate which
is
i think the wrong trade-off to make for
goei apfs which has
you know so many users and that's it for
me
thanks next one is eric
yes um we tried to do some
api changes this week and as daniel
mentioned we
backed down when we got closer to it um
i think he already summarized it pretty
well we were trying to remove a bunch of
errors
from the core node interface in the new
go libraries because
errors are frustrating and
it turns out that we really can't
primarily for
the use case of adls and we
even were flirting with the idea of like
well okay maybe
maybe adls could panic and use that as
their error handling pathway but like
no if we want the overall contract of
the node interface
to include adls can be operated on
transparently and you don't
need to know that that's what you're
doing then we don't want to have
feature detection for this and we don't
want to have different error handling
strategies for them
so we are still stuck with returning
errors from the core node interface
so we're just going to have to find more
ways to build helper libraries
and convenience functions around that
so no change that that really honestly
shattered my optimism i hoped that we
were going to be able to do that
um
can't be done all right moving on um
so as we're still preparing to do a
couple of other minor api changes
well more minor than that one um i
updated the change log for everything
that's happened since the last time
we tagged or released in that repo which
has been a while
um i found a little bit of unfinished
work around
codegen struct types were not finishing
the validation that all required fields
are present
so now it does will had actually done
some work on this for the
representations
but we haven't done it in the type level
so i put it in there as well
maybe error messages nicely tell you
missing field name
and the serial form as well if those are
different
um
spend a bunch of time doing tangential
stuff not quite ipld but
i got my computer in an odd state where
my
previous ide was not working due to
qt linking errors
computers sometimes
so i tried a new ide among many other
things in that process
i might be a golan user now so i'm kind
of getting in the stride of that
might be a little bit slow on things
while i get used to it but it seems
nice it's very configurable i'm
optimistic
um so in go ipld prime i think we're
ready to tag the 0.6
probably now and then after that we'll
start doing the interesting changes
um and i'm thinking
unless anybody else has other direct
feedback i'm probably going to keep
pushing
on some of the new codec work and trying
to move towards that
refactor of the linking api that's been
kind of a long-term goal
and try to make some progress on that
the rest of the week i'm kind of hoping
that's going to be a january thing
um but we'll see i'm probably going to
want to make sure that we do things
right and
get lots of benchmarks in this and stuff
so like the timing is tbd
that's it i'm starting to review rod's
coolness stuff but i haven't got much
yet so
sorry i'm slow
thanks um next is rob
um so just minor stuff for me and had a
little bit
tiny bit of time off uh so
mostly go actually reflecting back on
the week uh lots of little
maintaining things helping fix bugs in
go cid and other places related to ipfs
um
participating in discussions with file
coin actors people about hamps and amps
algorithms and data layouts and stuff so
one interesting thing bubbling out of
that for awareness is that the
actors version three will have the
um kind of union implemented
and the keyed union removed which is
nice because it'll save
i think i think i worked it out as 96
bytes per full
node on the hand and um and gets rid of
the only place where maps
are used in dioxibor in falcoin
um but that that
brings up other questions which we'll
get to later in the meeting about um
adls because there's now two different
formats of hands
um there's also two different formats of
amts
so similar sort of questions um
and oh yeah dag pb
uh i've cleaned up work that i've been
um working on for way too long
so this tag pb and go stuff uh i cleaned
that up for
with that ipld front end i said go iply
prime front end and um
it works as a codec um
not super happy with it it does work but
it's
i'm thinking about rearranging the cuts
of it
just to make it a bit more pleasant
because it's just a bit over complicated
in the way it tries to
build its abstract internal abstractions
um
but it's there and um read and write
dagpb
that's it for me i think
thanks next one is pedo
right hi guys uh so not not much
from me
on type you'll decide we are
even closer to the mudra becoming
becoming a thing finally
um we have some test deals that went
through correctly
people are getting their power uh
increased so
things are working um more work on
trying to figure out exactly how we want
to
i mean how i how i want to uh store the
chain in a way that
will allow basically this this thing to
grow to at least 100 terabytes without
without rearranging anything
uh i think i have the very final schema
now in place uh that captures everything
that
we need from multiple uh work streams so
both being able to pull uh
a bundle of blocks so basically have
like a
mini uh mini selector with with a fixed
depth of source directly
directly increment on database level uh
being
able to navigate just the chain
itself without getting into
into the width of status and so on and
so forth being able to
uh do actual chain exports as well
almost directly from the database
um so all this is finally
clicking nicely and
just just need to wire wiring some
caches correctly and
hopefully this will be the production
version of that
uh will i did drop a
link to the preliminary schema in uh
fill um
in the in the analysis channel uh so
it's posted there as well
and yeah uh other than that i've been uh
with uh got one to a number of
uh work streams around the base with
spike and stuff like that messaging
around that
uh and that's taking an obscene amount
of time
so yeah that's pretty much all i have
and i have an agenda item for
later yeah thanks and next one is will
um i i cleaned up the graphql stuff
that's in a repo in ipld or i should
talk with martin and ann about getting
all of these
fancy github actions and workflow checks
enabled on that repo
i saw the github repo and i guess i need
to
pr there to have it do a action to
submit prs to my repo
so i will work through that um figuring
out testing uh
strategies for that um
other than that uh front-end stuff
keeping the service up
thinking a little bit um
i i started on the design dock around
how we're
dealing with messaging uh the stuff
peter's been doing uh
the infrared side people are all very
excited for this to exist
so a lot of trying to run interference
to have us not
build other things while we wait for it
okay thanks
and i can see that chris doesn't have an
update so thanks for
letting me know um and
so we come to the agenda items um
first one is a gohan adl question
oh several questions um
yeah whoever posted it please
tell me this one's daniel and me
posing questions for the group and i
think will is in a good position to help
answer these questions
so we've now got so we're focusing on
the hampt
but the the same questions go for the
amt if we get there uh
daniel's building an adl for gopd iple
prime we now have two
versions of the hampt four file coin
um and these questions were just about
uh
the value of supporting all the versions
of the file coin
data layout or aiming for latest one
um i think if we were to if we were to
like there's two goals here there's the
you know showing up to
act as people and saying hey you should
be able to use iple prime in your work
and here's a good way
adls fix all these issues with the way
that you're navigating the tree so let's
just
plop this in place and it works and then
the other one is being able to read old
data and so
we would just like to have a discussion
about the value of these different
things and trying to get a mental
mapping for the value
that's what that's about
so uh i mean from my perspective
the state routes are versioned so it's
easy for me to have different schema
types
uh on those different state route things
which are
keyed off of the epoch so using the
current
amp implementation for things now and
then only switching to the adl amp
when the transition to actors v3 happens
so
i don't think for the analysis side
workload there's really going to be
any particular objection to them only
supporting the new
style hands this may be
my short version of this
is that is that a good thing to hear
um i think so at least from my side um
because i think supporting two versions
of this sorry supporting two schemas at
once
if they're if they only have minimal
differences is reasonable
in terms of it's still mostly being a
single adl
or at least sharing a lot of the code
but if there's three versions where the
oldest one has
significant changes then it's
significantly more difficult i think
okay fair enough that's helpful i have a
question about
because like i don't fully understand
what we are talking about so
is like does it basically mean that you
have different code bases for different
versions
of the hands this is the question
basically okay
they have different code bases for the
different versions of actors
so as you as you and you can look in
lotus and you can see it actually links
to different branches on
specs actors so when you get to a
certain point in the chain
you're using entirely different code
base to navigate it
um i can it's going to get out of hand
one day it's going to be like how many
versions do we have and how many
different code bases and then
maintain all those codes
i just just even things like there's a
new version of go and we need to
fix all of the old stuff to compile on
the new version of go
like yeah
um so there's also there is also this
other thing in the hampt where
the falcon hemp uses big end for its
bit field um and
and that's not something that we do or
want to support for a generic hempt
um i did i tried to get that fixed
before mainnet but
it was just too late and then there was
a discussion about doing it for v3 but
the the benefits just i'm just not big
enough to bother
in file coin so we sort of stuck with
this quirky
bit field in the far coinhampt that we
don't want to support for our generic
hampt
so there's questions about divergence
about
multiple code bases and yeah so
i i think i think something for daniel
and the guidance
the helpful guidance would be more about
what is
what is the most useful target for
development here
is it developing an adl that works
on specs actors v3 that can be used to
look at the current uh chain
and possibly offer it to the specs
actors team
as a drop-in replacement
or is it to work on something better
that is more generic that we could offer
them for them for a v4
um or is it to work on older stuff
an older version so we can expect older
work this is a
it's a question of uh you know the
biggest
biggest value for work um that i don't
have a good
answer to i mean i can say my sense is
that third one is
not the one where the value is um
that for from my perspective
the as soon as we get a real ipld node
compatible amped as the thing that's
being used as
the hampt that makes my life easier and
means that
we can then do ipld style traversals and
things like that and
and that gets us a bunch of
uh benefit in that then subsequent
processing as soon as we can start
meeting those
um interfaces we don't have to think
about subsequent versioning quite as bad
or it becomes a little less bad right
which is if i can still pass through the
hampt
uh and it's got that adl level that's
great and if it's not fully optimized
and we've had to make some compromises
and we fix those with a different
version later
as long as the like i can still pass
through it
works the same we've saved ourselves
having to rewrite analysis code so
uh i think this is one where i would say
the the good rather than perfect and get
it in
is from my perspective the highest value
i also have a sense that um
um that the specs actors team are not
going to take
a upgrade within a major version to
anything major even if it was the same
format
um it's i think my understanding of the
way they're working is
once they commit to a version and it
gets rolled out
that code base is really just in
maintenance
and things get fixed but otherwise they
don't tend to try and touch it very much
um because of all these gas calculations
and the rest of it so
um while developing a
an adl for the current version of of it
makes sense i don't think we should go
in with the expectation that they're
going to
replace their current version with an
adl and ipld prime
it's more likely something's going to
happen in a major version upgrade
so i i don't know what that means i mean
that that does mean that there's there's
scope there for actually changing the
format
and the schema but
it doesn't mean that we should so
yeah i mean at the same time even if it
is a major version upgrade
the wire data format may well be
compatible and that
is nicer when they can do upgrades that
maintain that
and and yeah and we did pull in uh in
some a discussion about changing the bit
field
um i i pulled in the um what's his name
from
chainsafe who's doing the rust
implementation just because you have
these alternative information
implementations out there and
like i'm writing code now to read the
chain in javascript
and having it change constantly is
annoying so
minimal change is good and yeah
so my hunch is the best value would be
my other thought on the bit field
specifically is the reality is if you
are doing any sort of chain analysis in
whatever language you have reimplemented
the go bit field
uh because it appears not just there but
in plenty of places
so you've already got one of these and
so it's not too much of a pain to use it
there
yeah that was my point there as well
except for the fact that this is the
in this particular place it's used in a
very novel way
accessing individual bits of it so you
actually need to implement even more of
the go bitfield than you do just to read
them
read and write them um but yes that's
that that's yeah
when i when i was doing doing the
schemas for the chain i didn't realize
in the beginning how
how much big int was used and it's used
everywhere
so if you're writing that if you're
writing code for the falcoin
chain in any other language you're in
the source code of big into figuring out
what it's doing
um so my hunch is that the best
best bang for buck would be working on
the specs actors v3 format which is the
kind of union and then um
adding in anything else after that
yep i agree um so essentially just
supporting that schema initially and
once it's working well
i can think about what to do to support
the proper new schema some way
be it like a separate package or
whatever it is just so that i understand
is this v3 of actors
uh the next version or is it the current
version yeah it's the next version
current is v2
uh yeah so the v2 v2 has the arcade
union
v3 will have the kind of union i don't
know the timing i think it's january
will be rolled out but it's it's merged
now
in in that hampt so it will be making
its way into all their test code and
everything so
oh so even though v3 is the next one um
it's probably a little too late to
suggest replacing the implementation at
this point
yep gotcha
i think that answers all my questions
about the hemp i don't know if you had
anything else right
no i i i might put it to
oh i think i'm probably talking to wyatt
again this week so i might
bring it up with him but you know we've
got this conflict here a conflict of
approaches where they're very much a
product team and we're not
and um and so we can't like their goals
are very short term they're very very
rigid
because they need to get these things
out in particular time frames and so
we're going to have trouble coming to
them with anything
yeah so v3 is pretty much locked in
stone in terms of their
planning for code so i don't think we
should bother trying to get anything in
that but
it would be worth discussing with them
the
the steps to getting ipld prime into
some of these places
for a v4
a question on things being plugged in uh
i thought
the fit for the amt
changes just went out like today
the for the hampton or the mt there was
a hemped one
um okay this is what i might miss
remember okay yeah and this is probably
for before right that's not what we do
there's yeah there is there is there
probably i don't know if there was i
assume there was a fit for the amt
because it changes bit width too
but the ham coin got got merged but it
got merged at the same time that all the
code got merged so
all that's all done so all right okay
yeah
never mind i'm i'm i'm crossing my
wireless nevermind
okay then we move on to the next
quest item on the agenda which is about
um the id stuff
yeah it's not i i'm not sure who changed
the
who changed the uh the topic it's not uh
who changed the question uh
it's not specifically about the ideas
it's basically in general
people are collabs are coming
to you and are asking her for what is
our like
what's our guidance uh as you know as
protocol labs for building
more advanced stuff uh and whether there
is something
some set of schemas or anything like
this that we can
link people to at this point
if anything exists not specifically for
the ids the ids was only one of the
examples
i i i don't know the answer to decider
so uh i know
uh rod eric that will be for you guys i
guess
yeah we got it we've got to i i assume
that this is coming from
from ava to who's doing grand stuff
okay who's got very good connectivity
with the ecosystem but
this is this is very language dependent
unfortunately
um if you're doing stuff in go then
our advice is very much to every it's to
push people towards ipld prime
um uh her question is
on a more basic level not in terms of
like how do i design something for my
language but
how do we get people to basically
build the merkle forest by just
applying a common set of things so it's
explicitly not language dependent
but more like what should people be
doing so that others can interoperate
with them at a later date
we need more docs work i guess surprise
i think we probably have some
documentation for this is that
is decent but it's probably not
discoverable like
i think there's um the primer document
that i wrote around the time that daniel
was joining us i think it's still really
good and we did a bunch of
editing work on that as he joined us
also which was really useful
and we haven't landed that
anywhere or i'll blame myself i have not
pushed that into either our docs or our
specs repo in part because i can't
figure out which repo it should go in
we should get more of those things out
there and make sure that they're
actually
reachable if we have people
that are giving us good feedback about
which docs they're not
finding we should really thank them for
that feedback
and make sure that we pay attention to
it and then
go back and ask them if they can find
that document
after we update some links because we
should
we should make sure these things are
discoverable from like ipld dot io and
clicking three times max
right now they're probably somewhere but
it sure isn't there and it sure isn't
there and that number of clicks
so is is this question about
uh so the last part of the question that
makes me think is this is about
what are the off-the-shelf components
for data structures that i can take
and not have to build from scratch is
that is that what it's about
these kinda yeah it's
like again like the the question is
coming through
on multiple layers so it's difficult to
uh
get an exact answer however the the
meeting we're going to have tomorrow
probably some of this will come up
uh with the with the ethereum well not
with the syrian people but
uh organized i i
think yes uh they will probably have
something similar in terms of
uh need uh but
yeah like like like stuff like the ideas
are very
general because you want to apply them
to
a wide range of things so that's why
they were
brought up as a small example like
my understanding was the question also
it's like how come you guys don't have a
schema for this yet kind of
of course yeah yeah my i think my answer
to this would be but still i still think
there's a language dependent thing here
because
there's a mismatch in maturity where
where the answer is different
depending on what language you're doing
things in because we can give you
off-the-shelf things in
go um we can we can show you some schema
work
i think maybe the best answer is to eva
to say when people have these kinds of
questions
link send them to us and let's have a
discussion because we need to understand
the gaps better
so that we can know what to fill because
this
this kind of question gets at why don't
we have that answer
and it seems like something that we kind
of do have answers for but they're not
organized enough obviously to
be able to just say here it is so
maybe if maybe if whenever these things
come that comes up
uh loop us in i i think an email is
probably the easiest way to do it maybe
just
get one or two of us in email and then
we'll like i did this recently with
some uh blockchain people and uh that
ended in some really fruitful
discussions with dean
and some other people about um
some various ipfs related things but
yeah
i think send them to us let's have a
discussion and then we can understand
requirements and what we're missing and
then work on those things
uh let's start awesome i will relate
well i'll
i'll just point uh the recording to
yourself
okay so
let's see
i don't see any other items on the
agenda
um does anyone have anything else
no then thanks everyone for attending
and watching
and see you all next week again goodbye